Suggested changes for 2022 annual survey (#213)
rust-lang/surveys: surveys/2022-annual-survey/questions.md

## For previous Rust users

### Why did you stop using Rust?

Type: select all that apply

- Rust did not help me achieve my goals
- Missing language features
- Missing libraries
- Missing tools
- Too difficult to learn
- Community was rude, unwelcoming, or otherwise off-putting
- I prefer to use another language

> - I no longer have the opportunity to use Rust due to external factors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- I no longer have the opportunity to use Rust due to factors out of my control
```

Perhaps this reads a bit more clearly?

- Other

### Tell us more:

Type: free text

> ### Would you be likely to use Rust if the above issues were addressed

Reviewer: I'm not quite sure what we hope to learn from this? Are we suspecting that some users will answer the question in some way that we can ignore because they will also say that they won't use Rust even if that issue is ignored?

Type: select one

- Yes
- No

> **SURVEY FLOW**
>
> Skip to `## Your opinions about Rust` section

TODO there are some questions before this which we could ask non-users, how do we make this work with the software?

## For non-Rust users

### Why don't you use Rust?

Type: select all that apply

- Rust did not help me achieve my goals
- Missing language features
- Missing libraries
- Missing tools
- Too difficult to learn or learning will take too much time
- Community was rude, unwelcoming, or otherwise off-putting
- I prefer to use another language

> - I no longer have the opportunity to use Rust due to external factors

Reviewer: I don't think this makes sense in this question - and definitely not how it's currently worded.

## For previous Rust users

### Why did you stop using Rust?

Type: select all that apply

> - No benefit or not appropriate for my projects

Reviewer: I'm not sure if this category covers folks who simply don't have the time to use it for their projects. For example, someone who is working on web app front ends maybe *could* use Rust, but it's not really super noteworthy that they are not. I wonder if it's the fact that this choice makes it seem much more negative than it might be. 

Perhaps we could split this into the following:
* I no longer have the opportunity to use Rust due to external factors
* Rust did not help me achieve my goals

- Missing language features
- Missing libraries
- Missing tools
- Too difficult to learn
- Community was rude, unwelcoming, or otherwise off-putting
- I prefer to use another language
- Other

### Tell us more:

Type: free text

### Would you be likely to use Rust if the above issues were addressed

Type: select one

- Yes
- No

> **SURVEY FLOW**
>
> Skip to `## Your opinions about Rust` section

> TODO there are some questions before this which we could ask non-users, how do we make this work with the software?

Reviewer: Which questions do you mean?

Author: Quite a lot of the survey, e.g., asking about Rust at work (just because they are a non-user doesn't mean their company doesn't use Rust)

> in a separate question, though this is likely easier to find out through download
> numbers.

> ### Roughly how often do you contribute to the Rust project?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Roughly how often do you contribute to the Rust community?
```

Type: matrix (optional)

Activities:

- Produce informational content about Rust (e.g., blogged, live streamed, made a YouTube video, presented at a conference/meetup, etc.)
- Consume informational content about Rust (e.g., blogs, live streams, YouTube videos, etc.)
- Read official Rust communication channels (e.g., This Week in Rust, the official Rust blog, the Rust Twitter account, etc.)
- Participate in conversations about Rust on social media or websites (Hacker News, r/rust, Twitter, LinkedIn, etc.)
- Attend a Rust meetup or conference (virtual or in-person)
- Write, comment on, contribute to discussion of, or provide edits to an open RFC

> - Discuss the Rust project in an official chat (internals.rust-lang.org, Zulip, or Discord)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Discuss the Rust project in an official chat (internals.rust-lang.org, rust-lang Zulip, etc.)
```

Choices:

- I feel welcome
- I feel neutral

> - I feel unwelcome

Reviewer: I wonder if folks who *sometimes* feel unwelcome will respond differently than folks who *often* feel unwelcome. I am afraid we miss important signal by asking things this way...

Author: I'm not sure the difference means much in practice. I guess that if we were prioritising between venues it would, but I don't think we'd do that. Also the numbers are so small that for understanding the results it's easier to bucket these response together anyway

- I've never participated in this activity

> **justification**
>
> We'd like to know where people are feeling welcome and the degree to which they are feeling welcome.

### If you indicated that you did not feel welcome in the Rust community, are there any details about your experience that you would like to share with us?

Type: free form (optional)

> **justification**
> 
> More detail on the type of situations where people have felt unwelcome can let us better 
> address these issues in the future.

## Rust at work

### Are you personally using Rust at work?

Type: select one

- Yes, for the majority of my coding

> - Yes, it's one of a number of languages I use and I use it regularly

Reviewer: Is there a meaningful difference between these two?

- Yes, but I only use it occasionally
- No (skip to `To what extent is Rust currently being used by your company?`)

> **justification**
>
> We want to establish what percentage of those who could possibly use Rust in a professional setting
> are using Rust in a professional setting. This is most interesting over time.
> Answers to this question should be combined with whether the respondent has ever used Rust.

> ### Which of the following statements are reasons why your team uses Rust at work

Reviewer: We ask about people "personally" using Rust at work, and then jump to their "team". Not sure if that's a problem though.

Reviewer: Perhaps just saying "why you and your team"?

- We find it enjoyable or fun to program in Rust
- We already know Rust so it's our default choice
- We find it easy to prototype with
- We must interact with existing Rust code

> **justification**
>
> The Rust community and potential adopters of Rust have a lot of assumptions of why one would choose Rust for a project.
> This question can help confirm or challenge our assumptions and see how they change over time.

### Which of the following statements apply to your team's experience using Rust at work.

Type: select all that apply

Statements:

- Using Rust has helped us achieve our goals
- Adopting Rust has been challenging
- Overall, adopting Rust has slowed down our team
- Using Rust has been worth the cost of adoption
- We're likely to use Rust again in the future

> **justification**
>
> Future potential adopters may want to know how often other's have encountered success.

### What about your usage of Rust has been challenging?

Type: free form (optional)

> **justification**
>
> This an opportunity to learn from adopters at companies what they struggle with when adopting Rust.

### To what extent is Rust currently being used by your company?

Type: select one

> - My company uses Rust

Reviewer: It would be nice if we could still get some signal between "my company uses Rust but it's not an important vs. unimportant piece of our tech stake"

Type: select all that apply (optional)

> TODO check last year's responses

Reviewer: I'd personally prefer to not capture TODOs like this in the document itself.

- Blockchain
- Cloud computing applications
- Cloud computing infrastructure or utilities

> - CLI

Reviewer: I would spell this out. I've talked with folks experienced in the industry who don't know the term CLI as "command line interface".

- Rust makes me more productive
- Rust is fun to use

> Rating:

Reviewer: Are we sure we're not losing important signal by allowing people to actively disagree?

Author: IMO, it's a clearer signal because we don't let people cop out and choose the middle option. We might lose some signal here, but I think that simplifying for both the respondents and in the results is worth it

- Rust makes me more productive
- Rust is fun to use

> **justification**
>
> There are several "truisms" about Rust that we'd like to get perspective on how true these are for users of Rust.
>
> Note that answers here can be subject to survivorship bias and so extra care should be taken with interpreting results.

> ### In your opinion, how would you prioritise work on the following aspects of Rust?

Reviewer: I'm not sure I understand the question. Are expecting for the user to put these items in order? Does survey hero support this?
